chore: adds how to guide for evm bridge (#17)
webb-tools/webb-docs: v1/how-to-guides/02-evm-bridge/a-local-evm-bridge/index.mdx

---
title: Running Local EVM Bridge
slug: /how-to-guides/v1/evm-bridge/local-bridge
keywords:
  - basics
  - beginner
  - bridge
version: '1.0'
section: how to guides
category: evm-bridge
---

This guide provides instructions on how to setup a EVM bridge locally and explains how to interact with the DApp to deposit and withdraw funds from the bridge.

## Local EVM Bridge Usage

The following guide outlines the steps necessary to utilize the EVM bridge locally with a local relayer, and local Webb DApp. Follow the below steps to get up and running. 🏃

### Run local EVM nodes

1. Clone the [evm-localnet repo](https://github.com/webb-tools/evm-localnet):
```bash
 git clone https://github.com/webb-tools/evm-localnet --depth 1
```

> 2. We are using [ORML](https://github.com/open-web3-stack/open-runtime-module-library/tree/a5ee7866c763efbd3afe0cd81fec54cede83a65f) fork, and fixed zero knowledge keys to run the bridge. **Run:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. We are using zero knowledge key fixtures to generate proofs. **Run:**
```

```bash
# populates fixed zero knowledge keys
git submodule update --init
```

3. Install the dependencies
```bash
yarn install
```

4. Start the local testnet:
```bash
yarn start
```

Great! Now you have local EVM testnet running! Now let's setup a local relayer. 🚀

### Run local relayer

1. Clone the [relayer repo](https://github.com/webb-tools/relayer):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/webb-tools/relayer.git --depth 1
```

2. Build the relayer:
```bash
cargo build --release
```

3. Add `.env` file to the root directory:
```bash
WEBB_EVM_ATHENA_ENABLED=true
WEBB_EVM_DEMETER_ENABLED=true
WEBB_EVM_HERMES_ENABLED=true

> GOVERNOR_PRIVATE_KEY=0xc0d375903fd6f6ad3edafc2c5428900c0757ce1da10e5dd864fe387b32b91d7e

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
